Knowledge Assessment — BGP Overview

Which of the following is not a downside of fully meshing BGP peers?

©. Configuration overheads
©. Poor scaling
ff © Node isolation
© Management overheads

Without route reflectors or confederations, how do IBGP peers have to be organized in a
Transit AS?

© IBGP peers must use OSPF as an IGP.
© IBGP peers must be peered with EBGP peers.
© IBGP peers must be limited in numbers.
ff © IBGP peers must be fully meshed with each other.

What kind of routing protocol runs within an organization’s or enterprise’s autonomous
system?

© EBGP
ff © IGP
© IBGP
© TCP

What is the name for the ‘standardized multi-stage process’ used by BGP peers to
establish a peer relationship?

© TCP connection establishment
© TCP session establishment
© Peering state logic
ff © Finite State Machine

Approximately how many routing table entries does an Internet BGP router currently hold?

© 100,000
© 500,008
ff © Inmillion
© 1@million

Which of the following is not a true description of BGP?

© BGP ‘hides’ ISP infrastructure.
© BGP permits highly flexible routing policy.
ff © BGPadvertises any intra-AS topology changes.
© BGPis a selective routing protocol.

What's another name for a ‘path attribute’?

© Variable
© Link
©. Table entry
ff © Metric

With confederations, Member ASs are connected by BGP peers running which protocol?

ff © Intraconfederation EBGP
©. Intraconfederation BGP
© _Interconfederation EBGP
©. Interconfederation BGP

What would a BGP peer router do if it received no Keepalive message from its peer router
within the required timeframe?

© Send a Notification message to ask if the peer is ‘alive’.
ff © End the BGP peering.
© Wait 60 seconds more.
© Move to the ‘OpenSent'’ state.

Which of the following statements is correct?

ff © BGP is the only routing protocol used to connect autonomous systems.
© BGP is a very popular inter-AS routing protocol, but OSPF can also be used.
© There are several routing protocols used to connect autonomous systems,
but BGP has become popular recently.
© BGP is a very popular inter-AS routing protocol, but IS-IS can also be used.

Why do you need to be careful using BGP ‘redistribute’ statements?

©. Because they can create network loops.
© Because they will not share private addresses/prefixes.
ff © Because they will share the entire set of local IGP prefixes if you don’t use some form
of filtering.
© Because they will only redistribute a maximum of 1024 prefixes from each
autonomous system.

Which transport protocol is used by BGP to establish peering sessions?

© BITP
© UDP
© TTB
ff © TcP

Internal BGP can be used to create what kind of distributed system, capable of aggregating
and forwarding IP traffic in bulk?

© Packet backbone network
©. Data center
©. Ethernet switch
ff © Transit AS

Which statement is not a true statement about the BGP state model?

© The state model is called a Finite State Machine.
© Each state has a direct path to the ‘Idle’ state.
ff © There are time duration dependencies for all state transitions.
© The state machine has six states.

Which two statements are used to instruct a router to share prefixes?

© Network and announce
©. Share and redistribute
©. Share and announce
ff © Network and redistribute

Which of these four qualities is not typically used to describe BGP?

©. Stable
© Reliable
ff © Low latency
©. Scalable

Which is the only path attribute to be added individually by a
subsequent RFC to RFC4271?

© Multi Exit Discriminator
ff © AIGP
© Weight
© Local Preference

What is the main purpose of path attributes?

© Tocommunicate Link layer information.
©. Todifferentiate between IBGP and EBGP-connected peers.
ff © Toenablea BGP router to select the best path to a network prefix.
© Tocommunicate how many BGP peers each BGP router has.

How do BGP peers exchange path attribute information?

© Using the BGP-MU messaging protocol.
©. Using Notification messages.
ff © Using Update messages.
© Using the BGP-MP messaging protocol.

The path attribute ‘Origin type’ prefers what type of paths?

© Paths marked with an ‘i’ at the end of their AS path description.
© Paths from EBGP peers.
ff © Locally imported paths.
© Paths with a low number of AS hops.

In Accumulated IGP (‘AIGP’), what is being accumulated?

ff © Metrics
© MEDs
© AS hops
© EBGP peers

What does the Network Layer Reachability Information (NLRI) consist of?

©. Prefix and Next Hop
ff © Length and Prefix
© Length and Path
© Next Hop and Length

During the ‘Internal/External tiebreaker step, which type of routes will BGP remove
from consideration?

ff © All routes received via iBGP
© All routes with an AS Hop count of more than one.
© All routes received from another BGP peer.
© All routes received through an Update message.

Which of the following statements about the tiebreaking process is correct?

© A tie is possible.
© There are 10 types of path attribute to compare.
© Some path attributes are optional, so they can be omitted from the best
path selection process.
ff © The list of path attributes must be compared in strict order.

Which of the following does not exist in a modern network that uses switches rather than
hubs.

ff © Collisions
© Broadcasts
© Bridging table
© VLANs

What field in an Ethernet header comes between the Destination Address field and the Type
field?

© Time To Live
ff © Source Address
© FCS
© Type of Service

When a broadcast is sent to a switch, the switch will forward it to......?

ff © all interfaces connected to switches
©. no interfaces
©. all interfaces in all VLANs
© all interfaces in the same VLAN

A bridge builds up a bridging table by examining the _____ of incoming frames?

© Source IP address
© Destination IP address
©. Destination MAC address
ff © Source MAC address



Bridges and switches increase the number of collision domains in a network.

ff © True
© False

Which of the following OSI Layers does Ethernet operate on?

©. Session
© Network
ff © Data Link
© Presentation
© Application

E-Line creates a virtual (i) connection between sites and E-LAN creates a virtual
(ii) connection between sites. Fill in the two blanks with the correct terms.

© (i) point-to-multipoint, (ii) multipoint-to-point
ff © (i) point-to-point, (ii) multipoint-to-multipoint
©. (i) multipoint-to-multipoint, (ii) point-to-point
©. (i) rooted-to-multipoint, (ii) multipoint-to-point

Typically, switches process frames (i) whereas bridges process frames
(ii) . Fill in the two blanks with the correct terms.

ff © (i) in hardware, (ii) in software
©. (i) based on QoS, (ii) based on MAC addresses
© (i) at layer two, (ii) at layer three
© (i) in software, (ii) in hardware

At which speed does an 10@@Base-LX1@ Ethernet connection operate?

© 1000 bit/s
© 10 Gbit/s
© 100 Mbit/s
ff © 1Gbit/s

How many bits are there in an Ethernet address?

© 24
© 32
ff @ 48
© 64


Can different interfaces on the same switch be assigned to different VLANs?

ff © Yes
© No

Do VLANs allow different networks to connect to the same switches?

© No
ff © Yes

Where in an Ethernet frame are the VLAN tags inserted?

ff © After the Source Address field and before the Type field.
©. Directly after the Destination Address field.
©. Inthe Data field.
© Inthe Type field, just after the Source Address field.

What is the name of the main standard for VLAN tagging?

ff © IEEE 802.1Q
© IEEE 806.9
© IEEE 802.1ad
©. IEEE 8@6.Q in Asia and IEEE 802.1Q in the rest of the world.

Which VLAN tagging operations exist?

©. Push, Switch, Swap
©. Pop, Rock, Punk
©. Delete, Replace, Forward
ff @ Push, Pop, Swap

What is the part of a double-tagged frame called that contains two VLAN tags?

ff © VLAN tag stack
© Combined tag or C-tag
©. VLAN tag bundle
© VLAN tag pyramid

What are switch ports configured as ina VLAN?

©. Trunk ports or Passive ports
© Access ports or Dedicated ports
ff @ Access ports or Trunk ports
©. Dedicated ports

What are the outer and inner VLAN tags also called?

©. Switch tag / S-tag and Customer tag / C-tag
© Customer tag / C-tag and VLAN ID tag / VID-tag
ff © Service tag / S-tag and Customer tag / C-tag
©. Switch tag / S-tag and Priority Code Point tag / PCP-tag

Which is true regarding an Ethernet Spanning Tree?

© It eliminates broadcasts.
© It loops frames to add redundancy to the network.
© It is used to separate VLANs.
ff © There is only one active path between any two points.

MSTP is superior to STP and RSTP on three points and inferior on one. Which is the latter?

ff © Flawless interaction with legacy bridges
©. Highly scalable
© Load balancing
© Traffic engineering

Which connection type does NOT exist for RSTP?

© Edge
ff © Dedicated
©. Shared
©. Point-to-Point

Where in the Ethernet frame is the information encapsulated on which the port role selections
are based?

© In the Type field, just after the Source Address field.
ff © In the Data field.
©. In the Preamble field.
© Directly after the Destination Address field.

What is the name of the messages Ethernet switches running spanning tree protocols send to each other?

© BID
© ISL
© Root Message
ff © BPDU

Which is an STP port role?

ff © Root port
© Listening port
©. Dedicated port
© LACP port

Which kind of port is always in forwarding state?

ff © Root bridge port
© Root port
© Designated port
©. Alternate port

RSTP includes two port roles not defined in STP. Backup is one of them, which is the other?

©. Dedicated
© Root
ff © Alternate
©. Designated

Which of these applications is not affected so much by delay?

ff © File transfer
© Video over IP
© Online trading
© VoIP
© Online gaming
Which of these methods is not a way of increasing capacity in a network?

©_ Increase the number of switches
© Upgrade all fast Ethernet links / cables to gigabit Ethernet links / cables
©. Increase the number of routers
ff © Implement proper queuing mechanisms in the routers
©. Increase the number of links / cables

What does QoS stands for?

© Queuing over Signaling
© Queuing over SIGTRAN
© Quality of Signaling
ff © Quality of Service
© Queuing or Scheduling

Which of the following applications is an example of a “real-time” application?

© File Transfer (FTP)
ff © VoIP
© Web browsing
© Movie download

For what purpose was Internet traditionally used?

©. To watch videos
©. To play online games
© To make phone calls
ff © To transfer information from one location to another

Jitter is the metering of packets due to a service level agreement with the customer.

© True
ff © False

Which statement or statements are true regarding DiffServ architecture?

ff © So Routers at the edge of a DiffServ domain mark packets according to the domain QoS policy
© DiffServ allows for end to end bandwidth reservation
© Each router within a DiffServ domain takes independent QoS decision when forwarding a packet
© Each router within a DiffServ domain needs to classify incoming packets to provide proper QoS
handling

Where is the DiffServ (Differentiated Services) value defined?

© Ina label inserted after the IP header
ff © In the IP header of a packet
©. In each router's forwarding table
©. In the content of a packet


When classifying traffic, which type of identifier will classify a packet based only on the value
of the DSCP?

© Multi-Field Classifier
© Token Bucket
ff © BA identifier

In PWFQ scheduling, which of the following factors is taken into consideration first when
deciding on which queue should be served first?

© Force
ff © Priority
© Queue number
© Weight

Even if there is plenty of bandwidth available, which of the following might still cause
problems in the network?

© Delay
ff © Jitter
© Throughput
© Loss

WFQ uses what to manage division of bandwidth between queues?

© Force
© Queue number
ff © Weight
© Priority

How many different types of traffic does DiffServ allow?

© 8
© 16
© 32
ff © 64

When using RED as a traffic congestion avoidance mechanism, all the packets trying to enter
the queue will be dropped when:

© The queue depth reaches the minimum occupancy threshold.
© The queue depth reaches a point where drop probability is 10@.
ff © The queue depth reaches a point where drop probability is 1.
@ The queue depth reaches the maximum occupancy threshold.

A port has been configured with PWFQ scheduler for 4 queues and a maximum rate of 4 Mbit/s.
Queue 0 has been configured with a priority 1 and a weight of 52.
Queue 1 has been configured with priority 1 and weight 50.
Queues 3 and 4 both have a priority of 2 but weights of 30 and 70 respectively.
At this given moment the port receives the following traffic pattern:
No traffic for queue 0.
1 Mb of traffic for queue 1.
3 Mb for queue 3.
2.5 Mb for queue 4.

How much traffic will be transmitted from Queue 1?

© 0 Mb
© 0. 3 Mb
© 0.5 Mb
ff © 1Mb

Finish the sentence with the correct answer. When packets are marked with an AF class, the
higher the drop probability

© The greater the chance of the packet being discarded when compared with packets marked
with a lower class
© The lower the chance of the packet being discarded when compared to other packets in the
 same class
© The lower the chance of the packet being discarded when compared with packets marked
with a lower class
ff © The greater the chance of the packet being discarded when compared to other packets in the
same class

How many QoS classes are supported by the Ethernet standard?

© 3
ff © 8
© 64
© 256

TCAs are agreements between what?

© Nodes not in any DS domain.
© Boundary nodes with the same defined PHBs and DSCP-to-PHB mappings.
ff © Boundary nodes.
© All DS enabled nodes.

Which of the following classes of PHB in DiffServ is the higher priority QoS class out of the
following?

ff © EF
© DF
© AF1
© AF2

If using PWFQ, when the priorities of all the queues are the same, then the schedulers behave
like?

© PFQ
© PQ
© PWQ
ff © WFQ

Which one of the following statements is true about queuing?

© A queue is infinite in length.
© Queues are always emptied in a round-robin fashion, one packet from each queue at a time.
ff © It will only work properly if the flow of traffic is bursty.
© Packets arriving are put in different queues in a round-robin fashion, depending on which
arrive first.

Why do many IP networks use a ‘meshed’ topology?

© To avoid using expensive routers.
ff © To provide resiliency and additional capacity.
© To reduce the number of IP addresses needed.
©. To avoid loops forming.

From where did the physical Internet originate?

© The DECNET in the USA.
©. The ISOnet in the USA.
ff © The ARPAnet in the USA.
© The IEEEnet in the USA.

In which decade was the World Wide Web (HTML, URLs etc.) founded?

© 1960s
© 1970s
© 1980s
ff © 1990s

The TCP/IP model consists of the Application, Network, Link and which other
layer?

ff © Transport
© Data
© Routing
© Internet

Which type of network element comprises much of the central fabric of the
Internet?

© Database
ff © Router
© Smartphone
© Base station

Which of the following is a true statement?

© IP can only be used for Enterprise networks.
©. IP is a modern protocol developed specifically to support 21st century applications.
© IP is a suite of networking protocols.
ff © IP connects users to services over networks such as the Internet.

Which is a true statement about using IPv4 and IPv6 in the same network?

© It is possible only if 128-bit IPv4 addressing is used.
©. It is not possible - you must use one or the other, but not both.
ff © It is possible for both to co-exist.
© It is possible for both to co-exist only if all network routers are provided by the same
vendor.

Before IP networks were established as multiservice networks (‘One IP
network’), how were networks built?

© Individual networks were built using systems from only one vendor each.
© All traffic types used Asynchronous Transfer Mode (ATM) networks.
ff © Individual networks were built for each traffic type.
© All traffic types used Frame Relay networks.


Knowledge Assessment — TCP/IP Model and Transport Layer

Why does the Border Gateway Protocol use TCP?

© Because TCP is the fastest choice.
© Because TCP is the more bandwidth-efficient choice.
ff © Because TCP guarantees data integrity.
© Because TCP is well suited to ‘send and hope’ applications.

Which of the following datagram types has a header and a trailer?

ff © An Ethernet frame.
© An IP packet.
© AUDP segment.
© A TCP segment

What are Application port numbers used for?

© They are used by Applications to specify the use of TCP or UDP.
ff © They are used by Transport protocols to direct datagrams to the correct Application.
© They are interpreted by the Network layer to apply quality of service treatments.
©. They are used by the Network layer to determine whether to drop packets.

If the TCP transport protocol is used when the end-to-end network is suffering
from a relatively high number of bit errors, what could you do to try to increase
throughput while maintaining data integrity?

©. Increase Window size.
© Decrease Window size.
ff © Use the BGP transport protocol instead of TCP.
© Use the UDP transport protocol instead of TCP.

Which of the following are the names for the four layers in the TCP/IP model,
from ‘top’ to ‘bottom’?

ff © Application, Transport, Network, Link
© Application, TCP, Data, Link
© Application, Transport, Network, Transmission
© Application, TCP, IP, Link

Which standards body is responsible for Internet standards?

©. The Internet Standards Forum.
©. The Internet Engineering Forum.
ff © The Internet Engineering Task Force.
©. The Internet Protocol Task Force.

Why does the Network Time Protocol use UDP?

© Because UDP has unique header fields specifically for network timing purposes.
ff © Because speed is the most important requirement.
© Because UDP is always prioritized for forwarding by routers.
© Because data integrity is the most important requirement.

Which phrase represents the UDP transport strategy?

© ‘Send and check’.
© ‘Send and resend’.
ff © ‘Send and hope’
© ‘Send and confirm’.


Knowledge Assessment — IP v4 Addressing

Which of the following is a correct statement?

© Private IP addresses use 24-bit length addresses.
© The network 1@.x.x.x is not a Private IP address, where x = @ to 255.
ff © Private IP addresses are not routable externally.
©. Private IP addresses do not use subnet masks.

How long is an IPv4 address and what order are the two parts of the address
represented, left to right?

© 16 bits, network part then host part
© 30 bits, host part then network part
© 32 bits, host part then network part
ff © 32 bits, network part then host part

Which of the following is not a technique to maximize available address space?

© IP version 6
© Private IP address space
ff © Using subnet masks
© Classless Inter-Domain Routing

Which of these is a Class B network address?

© 100.23.16.129
© 212.34.16.11
© 70.12.3.8
ff © 190.155.63.0

If an ISP is assigned the network address 202.100.0.0/16, which of the
following subnets could be assigned to a customer of the ISP?

© 35.100.0.0/18
© 198.100.30.0/28
ff © 202.100.192.0/18
© 202.100.0.0/15

If you wanted to create subnets from a Class B address, what is the minimum
length subnet mask you could use?

© 15
© 16
ff © 17
© 18

You can decide which Class (A, B, C) a classful network address is by inspecting
which octet (left to right)?

ff © First
© Second
© Third
© Fourth

When you apply a subnet mask to an IP address, what logical function is
performed?

© NOR
ff © AND
© XOR
© OR


In which part of an IP network will you normally find the highest throughput
capacity routers?

© The edge
© The network operations center
© The access
ff © The core

Which of these answers represents two link state routing protocols?

© RIP, BGP
ff © IS-IS, OSPF
© IS-IS, BGP
© RIP, OSPF

A routing table entry includes a network address, a next hop address, and what
else?

ff © A port or interface identifier.
© An up/down status identifier for the link to the next hop.
© A routing protocol identifier.
© An IP address for the outgoing port.

When a router makes a routing decision and sends a packet to the next hop,
what happens at the next hop router?

©  The next hop router uses the routing decision already made by the previous router and
sends the packet to the predetermined next hop.
ff © The next hop router makes its own routing decision and sends the packet onto the new
next hop.
© The next hop router extracts the payload from the incoming packet and creates a new IP
packet with its own source address, before route selection and transmission to the new
next hop.
©  The next hop router sends the packet to the destination address without performing a
route lookup.

In an IP network, is the path from A to B always the same as from B to A but in
reverse?

© Yes
©. Only if the path is an even number of hops.
© Yes, except after a link or node failure happens.
ff © No

What type of routers are used in ‘the cloud’?

©. Physical
© Edge
© Core
ff © Virtual

IP Routing determines which one of the following?

© How much capacity is available in a network for transmitting data.
© What link speeds are used between routers in a network.
© Which applications can be used over the network.
ff © The path data follows when transmitted from source to destination.

Which of these factors is not a primary routing protocol characteristic?

© Routing loop avoidance.
© How route selection is determined.
© How the routing protocol scales with network size.
ff © How quality of service (QoS) can be delivered.


Knowledge Assessment — IP v4 Topology Considerations

Why is quick convergence a positive characteristic for a routing protocol?

© Because slow convergence creates much larger routing tables.
© Because quick convergence reduces the likelihood of node and link failures.
ff © Because during the time a network is not converged, the routing process may have
unpredictable results.
© Because quick convergence increases router packet throughput during converged conditions
too.

What is a common reason for loops forming in IP networks?

© Routing table updates being affected by bit errors in transmission between nodes.
ff © Routing tables not reflecting the true state of the network topology.
© Badly made cables.
© Routing protocol computation errors.

What is/are the missing word(s) in the following sentence?
Routing convergence happens when a set of routers in a network all share the
same information about the network in which they operate.

© Protocol
© Pre-calculated path
© Alternate route
ff © Topology

What mechanism exists to provide protection against link and node failures,
before network convergence occurs?

ff © Fast reroute
© Route summarization
© Border routing
© Quality of Service

Which of the following statements about large routing tables is incorrect?

© Large routing tables are expensive in terms of memory requirements.
© Large routing tables can create problems if they reach a router’s assigned memory limits.
ff © Large routing tables require more host IP addresses for each router.
© Large routing tables create larger routing updates.

What is a primary use for Border Routers?


© To act as an aggregation/concentration point for a large number of links from other
networks.
© To filter and limit traffic based upon application type.
ff © To manage routing updates traveling between autonomous systems.
©. To provide packet replication for multicast services.

What is a possible consequence when a loop forms?

©. The router will close down all ports.
©. The router will reset.
© Packets will be delivered to random destinations.
ff © Link saturation will occur.

How does BGP solve the problem of exponential routing table growth?

© By restricting routing updates to certain parts of the day.
© By using dedicated massive memory arrays for routing tables.
© By restricting routing updates to only pre-determined routers.
ff © Through route summarization between autonomous systems.


How is an IP packet transported over Ethernet?

© Ethernet frames are encapsulated within IP packets.
© IP packets are sent using the Ethernet frame structure, substituting MAC
addresses with IP addresses.
ff © IP packets are encapsulated within Ethernet frames.
© IP packets are sent in an Ethernet frame variant using the IPoE protocol.

If a PC on a local area Ethernet network needs to communicate with a newly
installed printer on the same Ethernet, how does it find the printer’s Destination
MAC address?

© The PC performs a DNS request.
ff © The PC checks its ARP table then issues an ARP request, if required.
© The PC sends a broadcast ‘MAC_addr_help’ message.
© The PC searches its routing table.

CSMA/CD stands for ‘Carrier Sense Multiple Access with (...) Detection’. What is
the missing word?

© Checksum
© Combined
© Carrier
ff © Collision

What function does the Frame Check Sequence perform for Ethernet frames?

ff © It provides the ability to detect corrupted Ethernet frame data.
©. It checks that all Ethernet frames are received in the correct sequence.
©. It provides stateful security features.]
© It checks that Ethernet-attached devices transmit in the correct order.

At which layer in the TCP/IP model does Ethernet operate?

© Network
ff © Link
© Transport
© Application

What is another name for a default route?

@ The gateway route
© The worst case route
ff © The zero address
©. The default vector

ARP is a widely used communications protocol for ...?

©... resolving routing table entries into longest matches.
ff ©... resolving network-layer IP addresses into link layer MAC addresses.
©... resolving Ethernet contention issues.
©... resolving Ethernet MAC address duplication conflicts.

Which standards body is responsible for the Ethernet main standard 802.3?

ff © IEEE
© 3GPP
© IETF
© CCITT

Knowledge Assessment - IPv6 Overview

Which statement is true about dual-stack routers?

ff © Dual-stack routers can forward IPv4 and IPv6 packets simultaneously.
© Dual-stack routers can forward IPv6 packets, but IPv4 packets must be encapsulated in
IPv6.
© Dual-stack routers are expensive because they require hardware duplication of every part
of the router.
© All routers in an IPv4/IPv6 network must be dual-stack routers.

How large is the IPv6 address space?

© 2^32 addresses
© 2^64 addresses

© 2^96 addresses
ff © 2^128 addresses

IPv6 directly enables a version of which routing protocol?

© OSPF
ff © Segment Routing
© IS-IS
© BGP

Which protocol came between IPv4 and IPv6?

©. Packetized Voice Protocol
ff © Internet Stream Protocol
©. Packetized Media Protocol
© Internet Service Protocol

Which statement is true about IPv6 deployment?

ff © IPv6 deployment has been slower than perhaps anticipated, but deployment is significant,
and will continue to grow.
© IPv6 has been an unnecessary standard, and deployment has been minimal.
© IPv6 has only been deployed in a small number of countries and organizations, and there is
no expectation that it will grow.
©. IPv6 deployment has quickly replaced IPv4, and IPv4 only remains in isolated ‘islands’.

Why is hexadecimal notation used in written IPv6 addresses?

© Hexadecimal is easier to remember because all the characters are letters from the alphabet (A-Z).
© It is the only format routers can manipulate with such large addresses.
© Hexadecimal notation has replaced decimal notation for both IPv6 and IPv4 addresses.
ff © It makes the address shorter than using decimal or binary notation.

How much larger is an IPv6 address compared with an IPv4 address?

© 128 bits
ff © 96 bits
© 64 bits
© 32 bits

What are the two main IPv4-to-IPv6 transition techniques?

© Termination and transition
©. Termination and translation
© Tunneling and transition
ff © Tunneling and translation


Knowledge Assessment - IPv6 Addressing

A maximum of how many IPv6 addresses can be assigned to an IPv6 interface?

© One
© Two
© Three
ff © Three or more

A minimum of how many bits of subnet address is required to represent 8 networks?

© Two
ff © Three
© Four
©. Eight

An IPv6 address consists of how many bits?

© 64
© 1028
© 2048
ff © 128

Why is colon-hexadecimal notation used instead of dotted-decimal notation for IPv6 address
representation?

ff © To shorten addresses.
©. It would not be possible to use dotted-decimal notation.
© Because computers can interpret colon-hexadecimal more quickly.
© Because colon-hexadecimal notation is easier to remember.

In an IPv6 address, what does’::’ (double colon) signify?

© A multicast address
ff © Zero compression
© A loopback address
©. Leading zero suppression

Who directly supplies a company with an IPv6 Global routing prefix?

© The company buys one from a public auction of available address space.
ff © An Internet Service Provider.
© A local Internet registry.
© The Internet Assigned Numbers Authority.

How is ‘1101’ (binary) represented in hexadecimal notation?

© e
© b
ff © d
© a

Which of the following is not a legitimate way to represent the following IPv6 address?
2001:0db8:140c:8000:0000:00d0:0000:140f

ff © 2001:db8:140c::d0::140f
© 2001:0db8:140c:0:0:00d0:0:140f
© 2001:db8:140c::d0:0000:140f
© 2001:db8:140c::d0:0:140f

Which part of an IPv6 destination address does an IPv6 router use to make a forwarding
decision for a received IPv6 packet?

©. Destination port
© Interface ID
© Routing ID
ff © Routing prefix

Unique local unicast addresses can be used to provide what?

ff © Private addressing.
©. Loopback addresses.
© Multicast communication with all Interface IDs on a local network.
© Auto-configuration.

What dictates the use of IPv6 address space?

©. There are no strict standards, just recommendations.
© International Telecommunication Union standards.
ff © Internet Engineering Task Force standards.
© Agreements between the telecom industry's major vendors.


Which is the largest possible IPv4 or IPv6 packet header?

© 20bytes
© 40 bytes
ff © 60 bytes
© 82bytes

Which of the following is a legitimate reason to reduce the number of header fields from IPv4
to IPv6?

ff © Fewer header fields means reduced processing for routing nodes.
© IPv6 has a reduced set of possible applications than IPv4.
© Advanced routers can no longer handle more than 8 fields because of the Application
Specific Integrated Circuits (ASICs) used.
© IPv6 has no need for any of the Options that were used in IPv4.

Which Extension Header must appear first if more than one is used in a chain?

© Authentication
©. Destination Options
© Fragment
ff © Hop-by-Hop Options

Which two fields comprise 80% of the IPv6 packet header?

ff © Source and Destination Addresses
©. Traffic Class and Header Checksum
© Flow Label and Payload Length
© Options and Padding

Which IPv6 header characteristic helps to improve overall forwarding performance?

ff © Simplicity
© Feature richness
© Flexibility
©. Traffic Class field

Which of the following is a unique aspect of the ESP Extension Header, compared with the
other Extension Headers described?

ff © The Next Header field is toward the end of the Extension Header rather than being the first
field.
© The ESP Extension Header does not align to 8-octet boundaries.
© The ESP Extension Header cannot be chained with other Extension Headers.
© The ESP Extension Header has to be used with a Fragment Extension Header.

Each Extension Header must be a multiple of how many octets/bytes?

ff © 8
© 16
© 24
© 32

How does IPv6 cater for the functionality that was previously included in the IPv4 ‘Options’
field?

© IPv6 doesn't permit the use of options.
© IPv6 has an Extension Header type called ‘Options’.
ff © IPv6uses one or more Extension Headers.
©. IPv6 includes an Options field in the IPv6 Main Header.


What is one of the biggest differences between stateless and stateful address
autoconfiguration?
© No DNS server is required.
© Stateful address autoconfiguration requires no database administration.
ff © No DHCP server is required.
© Only one of them is supported by IPv6.

Neighbor Discovery Protocol is supported by messages from which other protocol?

© SMTP
© BGP
ff © ICMP
© UDP

Which of the following is not a Neighbor Discovery Protocol application?

©. Address resolution
©. Address autoconfiguration
ff © Routing update generation
© Prefix discovery

Which is one of the main benefits of IPv6 autoconfiguration?

ff © Reduced operational costs.
© Reduced round-trip delays.
©. Greater throughput.
© Reduced capital expenditure.

When the ‘EUI-64 interface identifier’ is used to create IPv6 addresses, what is the address
created upon?

© Another IPv6 address already issued to the same node.
© A pseudo-random number generator using ‘64’ as a seed.
© A pseudo-random number generated from the time of day.
ff © The interface’s MAC address.

How does an IPv6 host find its local network prefix?

© The host sends a broadcast message soliciting help.
©. The host can deduce its network prefix from its Link-local address.
ff © The host sends a ‘Router Solicitation’ ICMPv6 message to its local router.
©. The host sends a ‘Prefix Solicitation’ ICMPv6 message to its local router.

Why are DNSv6 resource records called ‘AAAA’?

ff © Because IPv6 addresses are four times as long as IPv4 addresses.
© It relates to the format of the records which have four fields, each starting with an ‘A’.
© Because ‘AAAA’ would be the first record alphanumerically.
© It relates to the name of the address look-up algorithm.

What are the two types of ICMP messages?

© Control and status
ff © Error and informational
© Error and statistic
© Control and event

What type of protocol is IS-IS?

ff © Link state
© Static state
©. Distance vector
© Path vector

IS-IS is used to exchange routing information.

ff © True
© False

Which protocol family does IS-IS belong to?

© SDH/Sonet
ff © ISO/OSI
© TCP/IP
© IPX/SPX

What is true about Integrated IS-IS?

ff © It supports routing for both IP and ISO/OSI protocols
© It provides an integrated network management solution
© It integrates the best features of IS-IS and OSPF
© It integrates routing and bridging within one router

In which environment can IS-IS be deployed? (Choose 3)

© Pure TCP
ff © Dual OSI and IP
ff © Pure OSI
ff © Pure IP

A router needs to build a routing table before it can forward traffic.

ff © True
© False

Which are true statements about ISO/OSI protocols? (Choose 2)

ff © They have been used to manage telecommunication equipment
 © They area subset of TCP/IP
 © They area superset of TCP/IP
ff © They were supposed to replace TCP/IP

What does a Level-1 IS router do? (Choose two)

© Exchange routing information between areas
ff © Sends packets destined for a different area to the closest Level 1/2 IS in its own area
ff © Keeps track of the topology changes within its own area
© Maintains topology of the whole network in a multi-area environment

Select the most probable cause of suboptimal routing in IS-IS networks

© Faulty SPF calculation
© Too many hops included ina path
ff © Default path selection based on attached bit
© Incorrect interface speed recognition

What is the SPF calculation based on for IS-IS?

ff © Metric assigned to links
©. Speed of links
@ Number of routers in a path

What is true about a Level 2 router? (Choose three)

© Knows the topology of its own area
ff © Is a backbone router
ff © So Can have neighbors in the same and different areas
ff © Contains both a Level 1 and Level 2 link-state database

Select the 3 major components of an NSAP used in IP networks (Select three).

© HO-DSP
ff © AFI + area
ff © SEL
 © IDI
ff © System ID

How many DIS’‘es can be elected in a single L1 area?

© l
© 2
© 3
ff © Unlimited number

Which statement is true regarding suboptimal routing in IS-IS networks?

©. It can happen when routing within an L2 area
© It can’t happen at all
©. It can happen when routing within an L1 area
ff © It can happen when routing between areas

Which router will a Level 1 router choose when it needs to send a packet destined fora
different area?

© It chooses the closest Level 1 or Level 2 router in the area (based on path cost).
©_ It chooses the Level 1 or Level 2 router having the shortest path to the destination.
© It chooses the router with the lowest administrative distance.
ff © It chooses the Level 1 router having the shortest path to the destination.

What information can be found in an LSP? (Choose two)

© Default gateway configured for the originating IS
© Neighbors in the originating IS
ff © Networks connected to the originating IS
ff © A List of networks existing in the given area
© Link state database

All IS-IS routers within the same area must have the same topology database.

© False
ff © True

A Level 1 router can have adjacent neighbors in a different area.

ff © False
© True

How do IS routers learn a network topology?

© Byrunning the SPF algorithm
ff © By examining content of received LSPs
© Through hello packets received from the neighbors
© Through static configuration provisioned by a network administrator

IS systems are considered neighbors when:

© They are directly connected
ff © They both received hello messages confirming neighbor status
© They both received hello messages from each other
© They belong to the same area

Routing between different areas refers to which level of routing?

© Level 0
© Level 1
ff © Level 2
© Level 3

What challenge does broadcast network present from the topology perspective?

© Broadcast segments are seen as a star by outside systems
© Broadcast segments are seen as a full mesh by outside systems
© Broadcast networks don’t allow for DIS deployment
ff © Broadcast segments generate too much control traffic

Which are IS-IS router types? (Choose three)

ff © Level 1/2
ff © Level 1
ff © Level 2
© Level 3

An L1/L2 router maintains two separate IP routing tables.

ff © False
© True

An L1/L2 router maintains two separate link state databases.

ff © True
© False

What is true about a Level 1 router?

©. It is a backbone router
©. It contains both a Level 1 and a Level 2 link-state database
© It can have Level 1 and Level 2 adjacent neighbors
ff © It knows the topology only of its own area


Which action or actions can a Label Edge Router (LER) perform?

© Push
© Swap
© Pop
ff © Pop and push

Which is another common name for an MPLS header?

©. Addition header
©. In-between header
ff © Shim header
© Cartridge header

What do MPLS labels identify?

ff © Established paths between endpoints
© The best path from customer edge to customer edge
© The paths with the lowest cost
© The LSRs with the least downtime

What is the purpose of Differentiated Services or DiffServ?

© It can prioritize which LER or LSR that shall transmit a data packet
© It enables comparisons between LSPs just like Open Shortest Path First (OSPF)
ff © It is used for prioritization purposes
©. It adds MPLS labels to identify VPNs

Which two protocols can automate label configuration and label distribution in
an MPLS network?

ff © Label Distribution Protocol (LDP) and Resource Reservation Protocol - Traffic
Engineering (RSVP-TE)
©. Link Layer Discovery Protocol (LLDP) and Label Distribution Protocol (LDP)
© Label Distribution Protocol (LDP) and Resource Preservation Protocol - Traffic
Enlightenment (RPVP-TE)
© Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP) and Open Shortest Path First (OSPF)

What are routers that operate at the edge of MPLS networks called?

ff © Label Edge Router (LER)
© MPLS Edge Router (MER)
© Label Push and Pop Router (LPPR)
© MPLS Entry and Exit Router (LEER)

At which layer in the OSI model is MPLS said to operate?

© Layer1
© Layer 2
ff © Layer 2.5
© Layer3

What kind of data can MPLS carry?

© Voice
© Video
© Any unencrypted data
ff © All the above and more

What does the Traffic Class field in an MPLS label identify?

ff © The QoS priority
©. The class of the MPLS path
©. The type of Layer 3 protocol
©. The payload class

MPLS inserts an MPLS header in packets. What is the most common mode for
how this is done?

ff © Frame mode
©. Asynchronous transfer mode

Where is the MPLS header located in a packet that contains a Layer 2 header
and a payload header?

©. Before the Layer 2 header
ff © Right of the Layer 2 header
©. After the payload
© After the Layer 3 header

What do MPLS labels identify?

©. The paths with the lowest cost
ff © Established paths between endpoints
© The best path from customer edge to customer edge
© The LSRs with the least downtime

What is one router type in an MPLS network called?

ff © Label Switch Router (LSR)
© Label Swap Router (LSR)
©. Label Switcher (LS)
© MPLS Switch Router (MSR)

What kind of data can MPLS carry?

© Voice
© Video
© Any unencrypted data
ff © All the above and more

Can MPLS carry data for circuit-based networks and packet-switched
networks?

ff © Yes
© Yes, unless it is duplex traffic
©. No, only for circuit-based networks
©. No, only for packet-switched networks

How many Label Switch Paths (LSPs) does duplex traffic require?

© 1
ff © 2
© 4
© 8

Which descriptions match (1) Convergence-based resilience and (2) Fast
Reroute (FRR)?

© (1) Passive handling with recalculation and (2) fast handling with recalculation
ff © (1) Reactive handling with recalculation and (2) proactive handling with pre-calculation
©. (1) Proactive handling with recalculation and (2) inactive handling with pre-calculation

At which layer in the OSI model do LDP and RSVP-TE operate?

© Network layer
©. Session layer
ff © Transport layer
©. Data Link layer

Which label distribution mode or modes are available for RSVP-TE?

ff © Downstream on Demand
© Downstream on Demand and Unsolicited Downstream
© Unsolicited Downstream
© Ordered and Independent Control

For RSVP-TE, where is a description of the LSP stored?

ff © In an Explicit Route Object (ERO) in all routers along the LSP
©. In a Little Fast Information Base in all MPLS routers
© In an Explicit Route Object (ERO) in the ingress and egress routers only
©. In the shim header of each packet

Which protocol selects the path to activate as an LSP?

© LDP
ff © The IGP
© BGP
© LDP and the IGP through a negotiation

Which is the main difference between LDP and RSVP-TE?

ff © RSVP-TE provides greater control over LSPs
© LDP provides greater control over LSPs
© LDP has a higher operational overhead
© RSVP-TE is less flexible

Based on what does RSVP-TE select a Label Switched Path (LSP)?

© The automatically generated BGP path
© The shortest path
ff © A manually defined Forwarding Equivalence Class (FEC)
© The RFC with the highest number

For every network prefix in the FIB, LDP in the Label Edge Routers (LERs) and
Label Switch Routers (LSRs) binds FECs to...?

©. Interfaces
ff © Labels
© LSPs
© Other FECs

Which area plays the main role in the OSPF concept?

ff © Backbone 
© Level 1 area
© Autonomous System
© Area 1

The routing table is required by router in order to forward traffic.

ff © True
False


What type of protocol is OSPF?

© Distance vector
ff © Link state
© Routed protocol
© Path vector

All areas must be connected to the Backbone area.

ff © True
© False


What are the reasons to divide one large network into multiple smaller areas? (Choose 2)

© It increases the number of routing recalculations in the routing database.
ff © It reduces the number of routing recalculations in the routing database.
© It increases the total number of possible connected subscribers.
ff © It makes all changes inside any area invisible for all other areas .
© It simplifies the architecture of the network.

Choose the true statement.

© OSPF is used to exchange routing information and calculate best paths to all sources.
ff © OSPF is used to exchange routing information and calculate best paths to all destinations.
© OSPF is used to forward data between sources and destinations.


In the OSPF there are different roles routers can perform.

ff © True
© False

Area Border Router is the router which :

ff © Connects one or more areas to the Backbone Area.
© Represents the multi-access network and its attached routers to the rest of the OSPF area.
© Whose interfaces belong to the same area.



Knowledge Assessment - OSPF Fundamentals

Which area plays the main role in the OSPF concept?

ff © Backbone
© Level 1 area
© Autonomous System
© Area 1

In a broadcast network, OSPF routers form adjacencies with which of the following?

ff © DR
© Adjacent router
© Next hop router
© Peer router


Choose the Link-State Advertisements from the list (Choose three).

ff © Router LSA
ff © Network LSA
ff © Summary LSA
© AS Boundary Router Summary LSA
© AS External LSA

BDR stands for:

© Bidirectional DR
ff © Backup DR
© Boundary DR


Each Autonomous Boundary Router (ABR) must have at least one interface connected to the
Backbone Area.

ff © True
© False

Choose the Backbone Area.

ff © 0.0.0.0
© 0.0.0.1
© 224.0.0.0
© 224.0.0.1
© 224.0.0.4


In the OSPF there are different types of routers.

ff © True
© False

OSPF uses TCP as a transport protocol.

© True
ff © False

Which is a security principle from the CIA Triad?

ff © Integrity
© Identification
© Indemnity
© Information

Working with the CIA Triad usually requires...

©...prioritizing the Triad principles in their order (C-I-A).
ff © ..balancing the Triad principles.
©..making sure to meet all Triad principles fully.
©..choosing one of the principles according to business objectives.

Which is the concept of controlling what a user can do after they are allowed access to a system?

© Authentication
© Auditing
ff © Accounting
© Authorization

Which risk treatment involves buying insurance or outsourcing the risk to another organization?

© Risk Avoidance
ff © Risk Transference
© Risk Collection
© Risk Acceptance

What is a weakness that could be exploited by a threat called?

© A risk
© A breach
ff © A vulnerability
© An asset

Safeguards are also known as....?

© Counterparts
ff © Controls
© Capacities
© Capabilities

What is the concept that a user cannot deny that they performed an action on a system called?

ff © Non-repudiation
© Non-discriminatory
© Non-interference
© Non-redundancy

Standards relating to the specification of the IPsec protocol are published by whom?

© IETF and 3GPP
© 3GPP
ff © IETF
© IEEE

Which of the following are both true statements about Transport mode compared with
Tunnel mode?

ff © Transport mode produces smaller packets, Tunnel mode is more secure
© Transport mode produces smaller packets, Tunnel mode is less secure
© Transport mode produces larger packets, Tunnel mode is less secure
©. Transport mode produces larger packets, Tunnel mode is more secure

Pre-Shared Key (PSK) takes the form of ___

©. An electronic chip device containing a secure ID
© A certificate generated by the device vendor
© A pseudo-random numeric sequence generated as a software toke
ff © A text string, entered manually by an administrator

Which one of the following statements about Child SAs is true?

©. Child SAs are established before the IKE SA
© Child SAs are related to one or more IKE SAs
© Child SAs are renewed typically every 24 hours
ff © Child SAs are created in unidirectional pairs

IPsec sits at which layer of the OSI stack?

ff © Three (Network layer)
© Two (Data link layer)
©. Four (Transport layer)
©. Five (Session layer)

Which statement is correct about an IPsec VPN?

ff © An IPsec VPN exists between two IPsec peers
© An IPsec VPN is always secured by Pre-Shared Keys
© An IPsec VPN only exists when IPsec is used in transport mode
© An IPsec VPN consists of one Child SA pair

ESP provides encryption and authentication, AH provides what?

ff © Authentication only
© Encryption only
©. Encryption and authentication
© None of the above

Secure keys are used for what?

© Traffic protection and outer header calculation
© Peer authentication only
ff © Traffic protection and peer authentication
© Traffic protection only
